# Getting-and-Cleaning-Data-Assignment

# Contents
1. CodeBook.md - Describes the experiment data and the steps taken to summarize the data.
2. run_analysis.R - R script to download, merge, clean-up, transform, and summarize the experiment data.
3. all_tidy.txt - Output file generated by the run_analysis.R script.
4. README.md - This file.

# Required R Packages
The R package dplyr and sqldf are required to run this script.

# Data for the project:

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

# run_analysis.R
This project contains one R script, run_analysis.R that does the following:
1. Downloads and unzips the data
2. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
3. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
4. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
5. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
6. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
7. Save the tidy data into text file.

Once executed, the resulting dataset maybe found at ./UCI HAR Dataset/all_tidy.txt

For futher details, refer to CookBook.md

# References
[1] Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012


